- - -
The Church of The Eight is the official clerical administration within [[The Senate and People of Utland]], and the largest church that accepts [[The Belief of The Eight]] within [[Lexicon#^Somnium|Somnium]]. The church is an organization that exists since the dawn of the kings, serving every corner of the realm through performing religious rituals, offering spiritual guidance, raising advisors for governors, organizing festivals, educating clergy personnel, regulating [[Lexicon#^TheBookofEight|The Book of The Eight]] for worship, and offering guidance to [[The Senate|The Senate of Utland]] on the matters of religion. Saint Vryon acts central administrative cell of The Church of The Eight, and is located within [[Basilica Arbitria]] in [[Ewyngard]], the capital city of Utland. Arbitria(land of will), also known as "The City Within City", was named by [[Lexicon#^Lucron|Lucron The Pure]], the prophet of [[Lexicon#^TheEight|the Eight]].
- - -
## Hierarchy
- **The Vicar:** The Vicar is the spiritual leader of the Church of The Eight. He is accepted as the Vicar of Lucron on the earth. His authority is to define and interpret the doctrine of the Eight. His missions are to appoint Cardinals, Bishops, leading important religious ceremonies (including the Senate's ceremonies), making decisions on appointment of advisors to the aristocrat houses of Utland, and holding the office of [[Lexicon#^PontifexMaximus|Pontifex Maximus]] in [[The Senate|the Senate]]. Usually, a Cardinal gets elected as the next Vicar after the Vicar closes his eyes to Somnium. To be elected as the Vicar, one must be a male believer of the Eight.
- **Cardinal:** Cardinals are senior members of the clergy directly appointed by the Vicar, given as an honorary title. They hold this title for a lifetime. They serve as the Vicar's closest advisors and responsible of electing the new Vicar. Usually, Cardinals gets selected from archbishops and bishops. After one becoming a cardinal they may be dismissed from their other duties and be assigned to dicastery of Curia Octo as judges that solves disputes between clergy, as bureaucrats that issues the Vicar's decrees and paperwork managers of church affairs, as diplomats between the church and the state, as inquisitors conduct heresy investigations, as financial managers of Arbitria, and other critical central administrative roles within the church. As their assistants and helpers, with the permission of the Vicar, a cardinal can appoint a pro-cardinal. To become a cardinal one must achieve priesthood.
	- **Pro-Cardinal:** Members of the clergy appointed by cardinals that carry authority of the cardinal who appointed them.
- **Arcbishop:** An archbishop is a bishop of higher rank. An archbishop governs an Ecclesiastical province from his seat archdiocese. An archdiocese with some exceptions are usually located within the most metropolitan city of their state. They are the head of the clergy administration in their state. They can call reginal church councils to deal with heresy, reforms, or disputes, can act as advisors to regional powerful aristocrats, could investigate or disciple bishops, and can act as a court of appeal for people about decisions of bishops. Archbishop title can be given by the Vicar himself, or granted to bishop by the former archbishop as a way of passing their duties.
	- **Bishop:** A bishop is responsible of supervising all clergy within diocese they govern, who are usually priests. They are responsible of assigning priests to local churches, regulate the priests teachings, investigate heresy, administrate wealth and land of the clergical diocese like a lord, ordain new clergy, settle religious disputes, advising to local rulers, and being chief judges of their diocese. One needs to have served as a priest to take on the role of bishop. For one to become an archbishop, a person should go through an ordination ritual approved by the Vicar, and at least three bishops witnessing and performing in the ritual.
- **Priest:** A priest is responsible of execution of religious rituals, religious education, religious festival days and ceremonies, providing spiritual guidance, caring for poor and sick, managing church property, and play the role of moral authority for the communities of the local churches they are appointed. For one to become a priest, after serving as a deacon, and the person should get ordained by a bishop.
- **Deacon:** Deacons assist priests and bishops. Their mission is focused on serving and learning from the one they are assisting to. Deacons take up many daily responsibilities of the ones they serve to. For one to become a deacon, a person would need to serve as subdeacons, and ordained by a bishop to the rank of deacon. Deacons can be permanent and serve for life, and does not have the intention of becoming a priest.
	- **Subdeacon:** Subdeacons role is to also assist priests and bishops, but they cannot conduct rituals but only can help. While deacons can conduct some rituals such as marriage, a subdeacon can only help with the preparation of the ritual.
- **Minor Orders:** In minor orders, there are many roles that one can take to pursue their path towards being a subdeacon. From the Eight, each god have different paths from one another. Duties and teachings change for the novices who serve to different gods. For one to join minor order, they need to be ordinated and served as a tonsured cleric.
- **Tonsured Cleric:** This rank is the mark of official acceptance to the clergy of the Church of The Eight. Duties of tonsured clerics increase as they become more prominent in assisting rituals, but they cannot conduct rituals by themselves even if they are members of the clergy. Their age range between 14-18. For one to become a tonsured cleric, they need to complete their religious education as a scholasticus, and went through the ritual of tonsuration through conduction of a bishop, or higher ranked clergy member.
- **Scholasticus:** This rank simply means "student". They are usually children between ages of 12-14. Students continue their education as a part of cathedral and monastic schools, but they study literature in a higher level, start to apply their rhetoric on the Book of the Eight, start to learn philosophy and advanced grammar, rhetoric and logic, and start to learn the law of the church—Praecepta Somniantium (the law of the dreamers). They continue to help conduction of rituals more, but still do not hold the authority to lead the rituals. For one to become a Scholasticus, they need to complete their learning of Puer Oblatus. This is the last rank of leity before the person gets accepted to the clergy.
- **Puer Oblatus:** This rank simply means "dedicated". They are typically children between 5 and 12 years old, often coming from wealthy families who are dedicated to the Church. This is a preparatory rank for religious life. The children are often placed in a monastic or cathedral for religious education. They are thought reading and writing, basic tenants of the belief of the Eight, helped with daily chores, assisted rituals, and served the church.

**Laity:** It refers to all members of the the Church who are not part of the clergy and not members of religious orders who have taken formal vows (like monks or nuns).
**Clergy:** Clergy are the ordained members of the Catholic Church who have received the Sacrament of Holy Orders and are officially authorized to lead, teach, and administer sacraments.
- - -
## Law
**Praecepta Somniantium:** The Code Lucar is the official legal code of the church, laying out the structure of the church, rights and duties of the clergy, regulates rituals, governance, and punishments. These rules does not include moral teaching of the church, such as what is sin or not. These rules are established in the time of Vicar Lucar.
**Tribunals:** Tribunals are head of the justice system in the church, and are appointed by the Vicar.
- **Supreme Tribunal:** Resolves conflicts between other tribunals, in dioceses and across the realm. Has highest judicial authority.
- **Code Tribunal:** Handles cases within the Rules of Those Who Dream.
- - -
## Administration
The administration of the church is spread on the Somnium through various big and small regional curias(courts). The central administration in the Saint Lucron is called Curia Octo, and it is the mechanism that all these curias across the continent connect. Curia Octo organizes under different dicasterium(departments), known as the main administrative bodies of the church.
- **Dicasterium Doctrinae:** It is the department that oversees correct teaching of the church's doctrine.
- **Dicasterium Clericorum:** It is the department that oversees training, life, and discipline of clergy members across the realm.
- **Dicasterium Cultuum:** It is the department of cults and religious orders that are outside of official church administration.
- **Dicasterium Inquisitionis:** It is the department that oversees heresy investigations.
- **Dicasterium Aerarii:** It is the department that oversees the treasury of the church.
A diocese is known as a land governed by clergy. A diocese can be a province governed by a bishop, while an archdiocese are usually the capital cities of states of Utland. From archdiocese, an archbishop governs all clergy in different dioceses of the state.