**Nírëalda**, known as the tree of sorrow is a mass grave for fifty elven warriors from [[Ard Caëd]] and [[Dol Caëd]] that fought and died during the siege of [[Greenfort]]. As elves bodies turn into trees when they are buried to the soil after their death, this mass grave turned into a beautiful gargantuan maple tree. This tree carried remaining bits life and soul of buried elves.

In summer of 857 AA, the goblin scouts of [[Burned Claws Tribe]] discovered this tree and attempted to burn it to send a message to [[King's Stand]]. After hearing this, [[Iennos, The Shadow]] instead visited the tree himself and saw the potential of an unlikely ally. With the help of the Raven Queen, the shadar-kai touched to the tree and left a mark that scarred the tree's soul. The tree started to rot, and its soul split into two, fighting each other for control. One side is filled with rage and malice againts the free will while the other is leftover of the elves' memories that are using their force to keep the tree in comatose. Iennos waits his new ally to awaken and let the blight spread to forest fully and use the tree as a siege weapon against King's Stand, and is aware of the conflict within the tree. If he awakens Nírëalda by force, then he suspects that his ally will turn againts him instead of getting fully corrupt with Shadowfell's influence. With this, the tree is becoming more like its reflection on the Shadowfell.

Currently, as it is in comatose, Nírëalda instinctively produces blight seeds and sends blights to all living beings in the forest.
Gulthias tree

https://5e.tools/bestiary/gulthias-blight-xmm.html
This tree is accumulation of 50 elves buried together and sprouted as a tree to be tainted later. It was tainted with the touch of [[Iennos, The Shadow]]. Iennos sees this tree to become evil as a valuable ally in taking control of [[Forlornwoods]]. Yet, the tree should awake by itself, otherwise it can get into an endless rage where it becomes an enemy to Iennos and his greenskin allies.