#Somniatore 
the all wise
## Origins
It is not known what the first creation of the creator was, but the Great Raven was the first of the creations that had free control over [[Lexicon#^theWill|the Will]]. The creator of creators wanted to create a companion that would amuse, and that was the birth of him. At first, the creator of creators did not give him free will, but that left the creator of creators unfulfilled seeing that the actions of its companion was to its predicament. So, the creator of creators gave its companion his own will, but the Great Raven did not forget the times his will was controlled.

Time passed, and when [[Lexicon#^ThePainting|the painting]] was done, and the creator of creators went to its sleep, the Great Raven was lone. Even though he was fascinated by the painting, the thought of his master leaving the creations without their own free wills scared the essence of his will. In uncertainty, the Great Raven stole a part of [[Lexicon#^EtherealFire|the Ethereal Fire]] and flied to the endlessness inside the painting to seek out, and warn the creations who possess the will from the dark fate.
## Meeting With Celestials
Wherever he took the Ethereal Fire during his flight in the endlessness, he radiated the cosmos, and signaled and searched for any free willed creation. Then he waited, until the eight [[Lexicon#^CelestialBody|celestial bodies]] who carried free will came to seek warmth in the fire he carried. He greeted each of them with respect by touching their wills, and proclaimed "I, the companion of the Will Above All, who brought you together, say this: either resist, exist freely, and let others exist freely—or be gone, and return to what you were before you gained your will."
## Accepting The Ethereal Fire
He was the first one who passed from the Ethereal Fire, and embraced the knowledge that only belonged to his creator. The Ethereal Fire burned his will, giving him foresight, and wisdom over intellectual creativity of the free will. And, the fire roared his rebellious will. His uncertainty on the intensions of his creator was cleansed by gaining a part of the foresight of the creator of creators, and knowledge to protect the free will from his creator.
## The Era of The First Dream
## The Era of The Betrayal
When the dream was strong, and when the elder children—[[Halfling|Halflings]] and [[Gnome|Gnomes]]—learned how to manipulate the Will of the Dream , the Great Raven felt the approach of a terrible future. His foresight revealed a darkness surrounding the dream—destroying all who carried the Ethereal Fire and enslaving those who did not. He called for a grand council, gathering all [[Lexicon#^Somniatores|the Dreamers]] to warn them of his vision, including [[The Ninth|The Ninth]] who was in guarding the dream from the coming of their creator in the endlessness.
In the grand council, in his rebellion against his creator, the Great Raven agreed with the Ninth's view: that creating mortals with lesser wills—who can produce more and ultimately return to the Dreamers after their existence ends—was the wiser path. When [[Soliel]] refused to create such creatures, he did not voice his views on the matter again. Yet he was deceived into consenting to the creation of [[Élsh]] for the Ninth, that he might stand against the Creator and safeguard the Dream.
He was the first one who reached the endlessness when he heard the cry the Ninth. When he reached the endlessness the only thing he saw was how his foresight came to reality. Before he managed to return to the dream, he was struck down by the Ninth holding Élsh, and fell from the skies, shaking the foundations of the dream.
## The Era of The Second Dream
## The Withdrawal