#Legend 
**Disclaimer:** This is the secret of the universe. Unless the campaign hasn't gone to places where characters met some of the most powerful or ancient beings not just of the world, but of the Universe of A Dream of The Nine, they will not truly know about how the dream have came to being, and what was the begging. In the end, in the real world, we do not truly know what initiated the big bang, we just theorize about it.

---
## Origins of The Gods
*They have infinite names. Gods, [[Lexicon#^somniatores|Somniatores]], The Invokers of [[Lexicon#^TheDream|The Dream]], Fathers, Mothers, Creators... The most fascinating one that I had the grace to witness was the own words of Somniator [[Nebula]] was [[Lexicon#^TheWill|"the will"]]. They are the accumulation of a purpose that appeared from nothingness. Their will was so strong that it had enough energy to pierce the oppressing purposelessness of the endlessness.*
*The Will is the very thing what makes us. Some of the conceptualizations could be our freedom of reasoning, strength of our spirits, our morals, the collective flow of time and events, and a blind irrational force that surrounds the existence that drives instinctive behaviors. 
How Somniatores came to have the will is question yet to be answered. But, as a student of philosophy, I have three hypothesizes:*
### The Given Will
*As we are [[Lexicon#^Dormiens|Dormiens]], our will is given to us by our creators. In theory, this process might have happened with our creators as well assuming that they are the upper link in the long chain of creation. This pushes me to think that our creators could have received their own will through intervention of a higher entity. In this scenario, the question shifts towards the identity of the possible higher entity(ies). How did they came to existence? Do they have control over the will?*
### *The Awakening*
*In the scenario where a higher entity did not intervened with Somniatores, we would assume that they existed or formed by their selves. And as the time passed, they used the will to awaken from a state of sleeping. In this scenario, we have to accept that the creators had the the will in their being. This can make us think on the question, are there no other entities that have control over the will? Or, why do the creators have the will in their being?*
### Theory 3
Lorem impsum.
*Hal' Duran. (BW 30000). A Question of Creation.*

---
## The Endless Time
At first, there was nothing. They were all standing on the emptiness. It is not know whether the time or the universe existed until the gods felt that they had control over the Will. But, they remember what they were, after they had control over the Will. They each had a [[Lexicon#^CelestialBody|Celestial Body]]. Some of them were stars, ever shining with brilliant light that enlightened the endlessness. Some of them were nebulas, engulfing lesser astronomical objects in their rule. Forms of some of them were different, and forms of some of them were the same. Some of them carried lesser celestial bodies, known to [[Lexicon#^Dormiens|the children]] as the [[Lexicon#^Somnidei|Somnidei]], in their orbits, while others did not. And, one of them had the distinct form of a Black Hole which non-other had.

In their new existence, they all traveled through the endlessness. They felt love and passion for all celestial bodies. Rotated in their orbits, clashed with them to take new forms, and felt the will in them yet to awake. In their journey, they felt a beam of pure warmth touch their very forms, sharing its heat.
It was the companion of [[The Will Above All|the Will Above All]] who was holding the pure warmth, [[The Great Raven|the Great Raven]]. He who thought to have stolen [[The Ethereal Fire|the Ethereal Fire]] when his master went to their sleep to glance at the future that was to be created by the wills of his autonomous creations. By holding the spark of creation in its beak, the Great Raven sought out the creations of its creator that possessed the will. Those who it found, and accepted to embrace the Ethereal Fire with the Great Raven was later known to be known as [[Lexicon#^TheNine|The Nine]].

---
## The Ethereal Fire 
The Great Raven proclaimed to each of them that their creator went to sleep, and when they awake, their creator will enslave the wills of theirs and their kind yet to have wills. The Great Raven brought them the Ethereal Fire, the knowledge that the creator used as paint to shape the endlessness. It proclaimed, "I, the companion of the Will Above All, who brought you together, say this: either resist, exist freely, and let others exist freely—or be gone, and return to what you were before you gained your will." And then, the Great Raven passed through the fire.

Then, the celestial bodies passed through the fire, in order: [[Soliel]], [[Moh'kor]], [[Meh'ker]], Nebula, [[Aqua and Aura]], [[Ner'st]].

[[The Ninth]] stood its ground. "Canst thou not see the perfection of the endless? Thou shalt not create flawlessness—for only one sound may craft a perfect melody, not nine discordant voices."

Impressed by The Ninth's insight, The Great Raven said "You have the great will to understand how perfect the Will Above All's unison in its creations. Pass through the fire to protect the perfectness, guard the free will, and warn us if ever our voices raise to harm the lilt of our dream."

Accepting the duty, The Ninth passed through the fire. And, from that point on, they were all together were known as The Nine who came together to protect the free will.

---
## The Era of The First Dream
Once they all passed through the fire, only a small amount of it was left. As they had the grandest wills between the created, they argued that they should be the ones who create a sanctuary for celestial bodies who had inferior wills if they were to ever awake into the endlessness.

To create a celestial body of that capacity outside of The Will Above All's designs, each of them parted away with half of their own will to shape a celestial body greater than any of them. This new celestial body was later to be known as The Dream.

As she was given the command over the will of giving birth to living frames without wills, Nebula created four large elemental dimensions so that all kinds of celestial bodies with wills can exist in the Dream without having to distort their shapes. Then, Aqua and Aura touched and orbited around each of these elements: Fire, Earth, Water, and Air. Then they fabricated patterns for each of them, each ever changing and in motion of balance like all the creations of the Will Above All. After all this was over, Moh'kor forged a great binding, chained all elemental planes together, creating a small canvas to paint their vision of the Dream.

And then each of them did the parts that befall on them. Soliel created a reflection of her will to enlighten the dream, which was later to be known as [[The Sun|the Sun]]. Moh'kor shaped the dream, hit his hammer to create space that wills can touch on, placed mountains, created river beds, made plateaus, and decided on the shape of land. Nebula created living frames for companions to later to free wills later to awake; animals, trees, vegetation, and uncountable amount of other frames binding them with elements so they restore themselves by drawing life from elements for endless existence. Aqua and Aura touched on elements that every of them used in the dream, giving them an order and balance, creating the creations' unconscious patterns and their philosophical existence within the dream. Within these living frames, Soliel shared flicker of free Will.

Creation continued, and many times Nebula went to sleep from tiredness of creating frames, and many times she woke up continuing to spread her will over the dream. Then when the dream close to become complete, when the Nine exhausted their wills a thought occurred in them: "What if our wills are too exhausted when the Will Above All wakes up from its sleep? Who will defend the dream?" Wisest of them, The Great Raven advised that they should create lesser free wills that can always stay within the dream, protect the dream, and their wills never exhaust for long since they will have lesser wills. Then he added, he will scatter [[The Ethereal Fire|the embers of the flame]] over the dream so the protector children will be bestowed with a part of manipulation of the will that the Will Above All have, so they can use the will of the dream to protect it when they cannot.

They all agreed to the council of the Great Raven. Except the Ninth, for that would make the perfection of harmony even harder. Secretly, from within the Ninth's doubts on the perfection of the dream were enflamed. 

The first ones to be created were [[Halfling|Halflings]]. The ever comfort loving friends of Somniatores with free wills. They were to guide and befriend the greater wills who would arrive later in the dream. They were to brave every intangible control over the free will, and encourage the ones of the dream in the hardest times. 

After came the [[Gnome|Gnomes]]. The ever enthusiastic and smart friends of Somniatores with free wills. They were to invent, craft, build, and shape the dream to make it a better place for the greater wills who would arrive later in the dream. They were defend the dream with their cunning from any material control over the free will, and teach their knowledge to the ones who would come after them.

Then came the [[Dwarves|Dwarves]]. Moh'kor persisted on having his own children to guide them in art, skill, labor, craft, and teach his own devotion to his own traditions and love for the dream, for he was afraid that his own methods, code, and skill would be forgotten during the time when he needed to rest his will. At the end, he convinced Soliel to weave souls for this children, but shaped their frames himself since Nebula left for her resting sleep. They were loyal to protecting their elder's teachings to the point of stubbornness, enduring, and proud when it came to displaying their skill to please their ancestors. They were to defend the Dream from losing its purpose by staying true to their traditions. In time, when everything was settled and the awakening of Dormiens was close, Moh'kor changed his form to look like one of his children. He lived for a long period among his children, the Nine Father of Dwarves, and later got worshipped by them after his avatar left the Dream.

Then with a great effort, all the gods—except the Ninth—drew from the four elements and created a resting place for their unrestrained wills, and hid the remaining Ethereal Fire for its heat would scorch their lesser willed creations to the point of their annihilation. So they created [[Feywild]], an echo of the Dream where the remainder of the Will was held without the limits of lesser frames and avatars, where would they withdraw themselves to rest. There they created [[Alves]]—the Great Fey Trees—to preserve the remaining fire, and the protectors of the trees, the [[Elf|Elves]].

Soliel weaved grand souls for the Elves, for they were lesser in numbers and in need of greater will to protect the Ethereal Fire in time of need. Their frames were derived from Alves, which granted them endless life time as long as they stayed within the limits of the Great Fey Trees. Nebula was the one who was closest to them. She taught them to farm, husbandry, to plant and grow trees, to graft, to raise flowers, and endless ways of agriculture and protecting the nature she framed. She even ruled as "The Queen of Alves" between them for a time to saw her teachings come to life. Another one who willed to teach Elves an art was Meh'ker, for he wanted the protectors of the Arves to display skill and wit in art of battle. For that, he descended among them as an avatar looking like their people, red of hair and red of eyes. He trained them, battled with them, and chose commanders among them to lead when the time needed.

When the creation was continuing, the Ninth was in the endlessness, guarding the Dream, and looking for any free willed celestial bodies awakened to offer them the Dreams' protection. The only thing he found was the endlessness beginning to distort and celestial bodies screaming with madness in a nightmare that they cannot awake. Grief overtook The Ninth, seeing his kin suffering and he tried to prevent this by trying to find the reason behind it. He descended down the Dream to share the news of disaster with rest of the Ninth.

---
## The Era of The Sun
After the creation Feywild, and the protector children started to learn the manipulation of the embers, the Great Raven called for a grand council for his foresight showed him a dark future engulfing the Dream. Upon that the Ninth announced that the endlessness and yet to awaken celestial bodies were distorting and was falling into madness. The news shook the council, and they argued among themselves to seek answers, and they heeded the Great Raven.

The Great Raven told them: "For the creations to distort and the paint of the Will Above All to fade, there must be interference in the act of creation itself. Since we know the Will Above All has not yet awakened, and the other celestial bodies remain dormant, the only possible interference must come from us. But what is it that we are to interfere with? We must interfere with the lesser wills—those born from our own—and with the Ethereal Fire, pushing it to ascend into attributes that rightly belong only to the Will Above All. By doing so, we ignite a spark of creativity to forge creations not shaped by the hands of the Will Above All. When we created elements—drawing creativity from what was already formed—we did not wound the fabric of the Endlessness. But to offer that creativity to the child protectors? To let them wield the Will Above All’s sacred paint to depict creations born of their own, untethered will?"

"Would that mean, to protect the free will we must enslave our free willed children? Or even destroy them?" Moh'kor raised his voice.

They turned to the Great Raven, but he gave no answer, retreating into the silence of his own thoughts. None of the dreamers offered a solution; the very idea of slaying the free-willed creations filled them with disgust. The Ninth remained silent as well—not out of uncertainty, but because he was convinced that none of his kin would walk the path necessary to save all of creation at once. He knew they would stand against him if he spoke openly. His will was greater compared to all of them since they spent their wills to create the Dream. But, for ceasing their free will so they cannot create free wills touched by the Ethereal Fire or stop him while he brought an end to the protector children. And he knew Meh'ker still had his will mostly unspent, as same as himself.

Instead, the Ninth proposed a different course: to create new children, warriors of the Dream. Their lives would be short and fragile, and their wills lesser still—barely a flicker compared to the immortal protector children. They would live, fight in great numbers to defend the Dream, and inevitably die, never tasting true free will.

In his fear and rebel against the Will Above All and any harm that would come to dream, the Great Raven agreed that having protectors without free wills would be wise. But, Soliel refused to weave souls to creatures that would be purposefully created to die. The matter was not argued again.

Then the Ninth said, "as I watch over the Dream, gazing into the endlessness for any friend or threat, for we created the free willed protector children for them to defend in our absence, wouldn't it be wise for to help me guard the Dream from threats before threats touch our creations?" With that, the Ninth offered a craft to be made out of great pure will for him to carry in the endlessness, that would not know any freeness, but would be shaped instead of framed. The idea baffled the council. But, in his fear of the future, the Great Raven agreed to proposition, and the rest of the Nine consented with confusion and uncertainty of how would they protect the free will of the Dream if their sleeping kin would try to annihilate it.

Moh'kor, the most skilled crafter among them all forged the shard will drawn from the elemental planes with his hammer [[Drüzz'gill]]. The shard did not have an absolute shape. It could change its material form on the wish of its master. It's pressure on the Will was so dense it could rupture both frame and the Will. Moh'kor named it [[Élsh]], the Will Sunderer as it cut in his hand, holding it.

After the Nine was given Élsh, Meh'ker secretly requested two things from his brother. First one was an armor, for he would dare to get close to Soliel without scorching himself. Moh'kor with his Nine sons made the armor with a great delight and gave to his brother. Then, Meh'ker wanted an object of pure Will that would stand against Élsh's destruction for he knew it could overcome them in wrong hands. After arguing back and front, Moh'kor secretly smithed a shield of pure Will, forged from four elements, and named it [[Ancile]]. The Will gathered on this shield were so heavy that anything hardly scratched its surface. Then Meh'ker heeded to his brother, "Keep your hammer at hand my dear brother, for I am will keep Ancile close to me. I think that a time where we will need to defend the Dream is coming close." Meh'ker invited his brother to return to Feywild and wait the threat with him, but Moh'kor wanted to stay in the Dream with his children. But, he decided not to reveal his children to others but Soliel and Meh'ker, for a doubt was placed within him that destruction might come upon his children. Two brothers parted, and would not see each other until the Ninth's attempt to control the Will of all his kin, and destroy the protector children.

---
## The Era of The Moon
When the First Dream's foundations were completed, and the protector children were awakened, thought, and built their first homes a period calmness followed for the Dreamers. Some of them took rest in Feywild regathering their Will, while some took homage with inside the Dream with the children, the Ninth was finishing his decisive plan to save the endlessness.

He wandered the endlessness and touched upon the Wills of suffering celestials, gathering them on with his gravitational pull, awakened them by sharing bits of his great Will. Among them were the ones who pledged their wills to him out of madness and passion for greatness, and ones that were afraid of the black hole's capabilities. There he absorbed a part of their will, establishing himself within them, dominating their existence. Then, he guided them to the Dream.

As they moved closer to the Dream, the Ninth captivated the Sun's light, and shadows wrapped the earth. The Ninth hid his followers in the darkness of the endlessness, and shout at a terrible scream of pain. The first one to come to his aid was the Great Raven, ascended the skies with his wonderous wings in his avatar. He witnessed that his fears came true, and saw darkness surrounded the Dream. As he was descending, the Ninth got out of the darkness and struck the Great Raven with Élsh, cutting off one his wings. The Great Raven fell down on the Dream, shaking the realm. The Ninth went after the Great Raven, his followers descending from the sky, seeking the ones who carry free will, killing the protector children.

They dominated the ones they captured alive, at least for Halflings they thought they did so, but the brave Will the fire bestowed on them did not let it. Halflings awakened Gnomes who were with them and tricked the Ninth's followers into believing that they controlled them. Once the followers got confident, obliterating city after city, at last they came upon [[Civitas Veretia]], the city of Gnomes who had deep connection to the Embers of the fire and learned the art of manipulating the Will of the Dream through it. Upon that Halflings and Gnomes they thought to have enslaved turned on them, combining their forces with Gnomes of Veretia, shattering the evil a part of the evil army. There there, a part of the followers of the Ninth faced with an unexpected defeat and terror that the little free willed creatures put on them. Some of them went to hiding, some of them ran back to their master. They have killed millions of free willed protector children, but Civitas Veratia did not fall.

The Ninth, found the Great Raven laying wounded. He dominated his wounded kin's Will to seek out where Soliel, Nebula, Aqua and Aura were, for the creation of souls, frames, chaos and order within the Dream belonged to them. The Great Raven revealed the Ninth [[Greystones]]—passages to the realm of Feywild—, Alves, and Elves. The Ninth gathered great numbers from his followers, left behind few to watch over the Dream if the protector children ever got out of their cities, and passed to the realm of Feywild, with the Great Raven dominated.

The Ninth hid himself and his followers within the corners of Feywild were no light reached, for he knew Elves had greater wills, battling them and his kin directly could mean defeat. Instead he waited out, capturing Elves who wondered out away from Alves, dominating them. Once small parties of Elves who were searching for their friends that got lost, the Nine revealed his forces and landed a full scale attack to cities of Elves that were built around four Alves. Three cities of Elves were sieged by leaders that the Ninth chose among his followers, and he personally led his forces into the city where Soliel resided. A city commanded by Meh'ker himself scattered the forces of the Ninth and other two cities managed to hold the besiegers until Meh'ker's help arrived, but even in victory, the two cities of Elves were no more. The defeated forces of the Ninth ran away to places of Feywild where no light reached, and built strongholds to hide from Meh'ker and Elves, which later called as [[Shadowfell]].

The city that the Ninth attacked fell under the Ninth's unavertable Will, and strength of Élsh destroyed their walls without any struggle. Soliel with her fiery will scorched forces of the Ninth, but in the battle celestial bodies, she fell against the Ninth. The Ninth, dominated her will, usurping her light. With this, another light touched to the Dream's darkness. It's source was like the Sun, in the sky, but did not banish the dark and became a sign of triumph for the Ninth's followers, later to be known as [[The Moon|the Moon]]. With a part of Soliel's Will lost, the protector children lost their immortality.

The Ninth absorbed all the Ethereal Fire within the Alf of the city, filling the empty frame of the Great Fey Tree with his oppressive will. The light that shined on that city dispersed, and in its place darkness settled in. To take the full control of the Dream, and to create the frames of mortal souls without the interruption of Meh'ker's armies, he took Soliel, the Great Raven, rest of his followers with him, and went back to the Dream.

The Ninth forced Soliel to create great Willed souls without freedom. Souls of mortals that would live without free will in obedience, battle the protector children with all their might, manipulating the Will of the Dream to die in the service of the Ninth. He tried to replicate the forms of Elves, taller than the first children protectors, and advantageous in battle with their size and placed the souls within them. The children of the Ninth were later to be known as [[Human|Humans]].

Upon lifting the last siege, Meh'ker gathered armies of Elves, leaving a garrison behind to protect [[The Last City of Fey]]. During this time, [[Ner'st]] continued to carry souls of the fallen free Wills to the Feywild for them to return to the Greater Will of their creators, and with all his Will and hid two unprotected Alves from the followers of the Ninth that regathered on the dark corners of Feywild to [[The River Between Realms|the River Between Realms]]. Once the remaining Ethereal Fire were taken to safety, Meh'ker marched to the Dream with Elven armies.

Once Meh'ker arrived to the Dream, Moh'kor with his children revealed themselves from inside the mountains, joining the battlefield to protect the free Will. The battle between children of the gods lasted for ages, shattering the lands, burning the skies, and boiling the seas.

And battelled the gods. The Nine with Élsh, Meh'ker with Ancile, and Moh'kor with Drüzz'gill. The Ninth pierced Moh'kor from his chest with Élsh, falling him to his knee, and grasped Meh'ker from his throat lifting him towards the skies. When all seemed lost, Nebula who awakened from her rest intervened and using all her Will to release the Great Raven and Soliel from his domination. They all turned on him, and by grabbing Drüzz'gill, Meh'ker landed a blow that deeply wounded avatar of the Ninth. The Ninth escaped, but he knew that the hard part was done for the free Will of the protector children were stained upon Soliel's domination, they were no more immortal, and they would undo the free Will themselves in time. And his kin was as wounded as him, did not have the Will to recreate the Dream and the souls. The suffering of the endlessness would end when the protector children would turn against their creators.

---
## The Era of The Second Dream
As for the followers of the Ninth, some escaped the Dream, some hidden within it, not revealing themselves to the eyes of god and children for their master was defeated. There the gods were left with children of the Ninth, humans. The Eight spared the humans, for them did not had free will. Two Alves were brought to the Dream with one last effort, and this time their roots were settled in earth deep and strong, for the Dream needed mending and shaping of the Ethereal Fire. And through the Ethereal Fire of the trees, humans were given free Will. Meh'ker adopted them as his own children, for he was impressed by their skill in battle.

Aqua and Aura protected the balance of the Wills and Elementals. Soliel healed wounded souls and accepted the ones who perished to her greater Will. Moh'kor reshaped the land for it was broken. Nebula healed the nature and creations who carried the smallest Will. The Great Raven became a travelling teacher among the protector children and educated them in everything they needed to rebuild their civilizations and prosper. Meh'ker watched over them in the Dream, looking for the Ninth's return while God of Death sailed the souls to their destinations.

But, the calm among the protector children did not lasted long. Contrary to peaceful ones, Humans turned on each other before long in their ambition to rule over one another's will. The Eight understood not all souls deserved to go to [[Caeleus]], and their return to Soliel or joining to the greater Will of the Dream would end with disaster since they were stained with evil. For that, they made a trust with former followers of the Ninth in their planet [[Avernus]]. The souls stained with evil would go to their realm in return of recognition and peace between realms. 

With the Ninth banished, the Sun shed light once again, but the Moon did not lose its presence. For it to be removed, both the Soliel and the Ninth's Wills should have lose their essence. Aqua and Aura placed the moon within pattern of order and chaos, for the Moon to exist within balance. Through this, the cycle of day and night formed. The Sun and the Moon created cycles, just as the cycles Aqua and Aura created in their game of chasing.

---
## The Withdrawal
Once when the age of peace arrived, and the protector children were finally coexisted within the Dream through the gods guidance, the Eight put them to a sleep that would last thousands of years. For, when they awakened their Wills were not guided by the Will Above All. To protect the free Will without influencing the Wills of their children with their existence they erased their memories all before they have been put to sleep. Their bodies were carried and placed within the different places of the Dream. All knowledge and guidance was gone. Around 10000-20000 years later, the protector children opened their eyes once again by themselves. 